docs(contributing): basic layout (#199)
ansys/pyworkbench: doc/source/contribute/developer.rst

> Contributing as a developer
> ###########################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contribute as a developer
#########################
```
Short short form of present tense verb versus gerund (-ing) form.

.. grid:: 1 1 3 3

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`code-fork` Fork the repository
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: fork-the-repository
        :link-type: ref

>         Learn how to fork the project and get your own copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Learn how to fork the project to get your own copy.
```

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`download` Clone the repository
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: clone-the-repository
        :link-type: ref

>         Download your own copy in your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Clone the repository to download your own copy to your local machine.
```

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`download` Install for developers
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: install-for-developers
        :link-type: ref

        Install the project in editable mode.

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`vial-circle-check` Run the tests
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: run-tests
        :link-type: ref

>         Verify your changes by testing the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Verify your changes to the project by running tests.
```

.. _fork-the-repository:

Fork the repository
===================

Forking the repository is the first step to contributing to the project. This

> allows you to have your own copy of the project so you can make changes without
> affection the main project. Once you have made your changes, you can submit a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows you to have your own copy of the project so that you can make changes without
affecting the main project. Once you have made your changes, you can submit a
```

> pull-request to the main project to have your changes reviewed and merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pull request to the main project to have your changes reviewed and merged.
```

.. button-link:: https://github.com/ansys/pyworkbench/fork
    :color: primary
    :align: center

    :fa:`code-fork` Fork this project

.. note::

>     If you are an Ansys employee, you can skip this step.

Reviewer: What about the instructions for external contributors?

Reviewer: @jorgepiloto I can see now that my comment doesn't really make sense. The "Fork the repository" step doesn't have to be completed by Ansys employees, and external contributors can refer to GitHub resources or the PyAnsys dev guide for forking instructions.  Should we say something to this effect though--or is it just obvious to developers?

.. _clone-the-repository:

Clone the repository
====================

> Make sure you `configure SSH`_ with your GitHub
> account. This allows you to clone the repository without having to use tokens
> or passwords. Also, make sure you have `git`_ installed in your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that you `configure SSH`_ with your GitHub
account. This allows you to clone the repository without having to use tokens
or passwords. Also, make sure you have `git`_ installed on your machine.
```

To clone the repository using SSH, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone git@github.com:ansys/pyworkbench

.. note::

>     If you are not an Ansys employee, you need to fork the repository and
>     replace ``ansys`` with your GitHub user name in the ``git clone`` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are not an Ansys employee, you must fork the repository and
    replace ``ansys`` with your GitHub username in the ``git clone`` command.
```

.. _install-for-developers:

Install for developers
======================

> Installing pyworkbench in development mode allows you to perform changes to the code
> and see the changes reflected in your environment without having to reinstall
> the library every time you make a change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing PyWorkbench in development mode lets you change the code
and see these changes reflected in your environment without having to reinstall
the library every time you make a change.
```

Virtual environment
-------------------

> Start by navigating to the project's root directory by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by navigating to the project's root directory by running this command:
```

.. code-block::

    cd pyworkbench

> Then, create a new virtual environment named ``.venv`` to isolate your system's
> Python environment by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a new virtual environment named ``.venv`` to isolate your system's
Python environmentg:
```

.. code-block:: text

    python -m venv .venv

Finally, activate this environment by running:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Windows

        .. tab-set::

            .. tab-item:: CMD

                .. code-block:: text

                    .venv\Scripts\activate.bat

            .. tab-item:: PowerShell

                .. code-block:: text

                    .venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    .. tab-item:: macOS/Linux/UNIX

        .. code-block:: text

            source .venv/bin/activate

Development mode
----------------

> Now, install pyworkbench in editable mode by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, install PyWorkbench in editable mode:
```

.. code-block:: text

    python -m pip install --editable .

Verify the installation by checking the version of the library:

.. code-block:: python

    from ansys.workbench.core import __version__

    print(f"pyworkbench version is {__version__}")

.. jinja::

    .. code-block:: text

       >>> pyworkbench version is {{ PYWORKBENCH_VERSION }}

Install Tox
-----------

Once the project is installed, you can install `Tox`_. This is a cross-platform
automation tool. The main advantage of Tox is that it allows you to test your
project in different environments and configurations in a temporary and

> isolated Python virtual environment. To install Tox, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
isolated Python virtual environment.

Install Tox:
```

.. code-block:: text

    python -m pip install tox

> Finally, verify the installation by listing all the different environments
> (automation rules) for pyworkbench:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify the Tox installation by listing all the different environments
(automation rules) for PyWorkbench:
```

.. code-block:: text

    tox list

.. _run-tests:

Run the tests
=============

> Once you have made your changes, you can run the tests to verify that your
> modifications did not break the project. pyworkbench tests support different markers
> to avoid running the whole suite of tests. These markers are associated to a
> dedicated `Tox`_ environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have made your changes, you can run the tests to verify that your
changes did not break the project. PyWorkbench tests support different markers
to avoid running the whole suite of tests. These markers are associated with a
dedicated Tox environment.
```
You only want the first reference on the page to be a link.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out.

Contribute as a developer
#########################

.. grid:: 1 1 3 3

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`code-fork` Fork the repository
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: fork-the-repository
        :link-type: ref

        Fork the project to create a copy.

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`download` Clone the repository
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: clone-the-repository
        :link-type: ref

        Clone the repository to download the copy to your local machine.

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`download` Install for developers
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: install-for-developers
        :link-type: ref

        Install the project in editable mode.

    .. grid-item-card:: :fa:`vial-circle-check` Run the tests
        :padding: 2 2 2 2
        :link: run-tests
        :link-type: ref

        Verify your changes to the project by running tests.

> 

Reviewer: @jorgepiloto I see PyHeart has two additional sections: Code style compliance and Run the CI/CD pipelines. Do you possibly want to add this type of content to this library?

.. _fork-the-repository:

Fork the repository
===================

Forking the repository is the first step to contributing to the project. This
allows you to have your own copy of the project so that you can make changes without
affecting the main project. Once you have made your changes, you can submit a
pull request to the main project to have your changes reviewed and merged.

.. button-link:: https://github.com/ansys/pyworkbench/fork
    :color: primary

>     :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :align: left
```
We should be avoiding center alignment.

    :fa:`code-fork` Fork this project

.. note::

    If you are an Ansys employee, you can skip this step.

.. _clone-the-repository:

Clone the repository
====================

Make sure that you `configure SSH`_ with your GitHub
account. This allows you to clone the repository without having to use tokens
or passwords. Also, make sure you have `git`_ installed on your machine.

Clone the repository using SSH:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone git@github.com:ansys/pyworkbench

.. note::

>     If you are not an Ansys employee, you must fork the repository and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are not an Ansys employee, you must :ref:`fork the repository <fork-the-repository> and
```

the library every time you make a change.

Virtual environment
-------------------

Start by navigating to the project's root directory:

.. code-block::

    cd pyworkbench

Then, create a new virtual environment named ``.venv`` to isolate your system's
Python environment:

.. code-block:: text

    python -m venv .venv

Finally, activate this environment:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Windows

        .. tab-set::

            .. tab-item:: CMD

                .. code-block:: text

                    .venv\Scripts\activate.bat

            .. tab-item:: PowerShell

                .. code-block:: text

                    .venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    .. tab-item:: macOS/Linux/UNIX

        .. code-block:: text

            source .venv/bin/activate

Development mode
----------------

Now, install PyWorkbench in editable mode:

.. code-block:: text

    python -m pip install --editable .

Verify the installation by checking the version of the library:

.. code-block:: python

    from ansys.workbench.core import __version__

    print(f"pyworkbench version is {__version__}")

.. jinja::

    .. code-block:: text

>        >>> pyworkbench version is {{ PYWORKBENCH_VERSION }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       >>> PyWorkbench version is {{ PYWORKBENCH_VERSION }}.
```

Install Tox
-----------

Once the project is installed, you can install `Tox`_. This is a cross-platform

> automation tool. The main advantage of Tox is that it allows you to test your
> project in different environments and configurations in a temporary and
> isolated Python virtual environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automation tool. The main advantage of Tox is that it eases routine tasks like project
testing, documentation generation, and wheel building in separate and isolated Python
virtual environments.
```
I replaced with the wording that was in PyHeart as it sounded better!

Install Tox:

.. code-block:: text

    python -m pip install tox

Verify the Tox installation by listing all the different environments
(automation rules) for PyWorkbench:

.. code-block:: text

>     tox list

Reviewer: Should this be ``python -m tox list`` like in the PyHeart doc?

.. _run-tests:

Run the tests
=============

Once you have made your changes, you can run the tests to verify that your

> changes did not break the project. PyWorkbench tests support different markers
> to avoid running the whole suite of tests. These markers are associated with a
> dedicated Tox environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes did not break the project. PyWorkbench tests support different markers
to allow testing with or without coverage (and against specific Python versions).
These markers are associated with dedicated Tox environments.
```

> dedicated Tox environment.

Reviewer: Not sure if we can use this instead--to match PyAnsys Heart wording:

PyWorkbench tests support different markers
to allow testing with or without coverage (and against specific Python versions).
These markers are associated with dedicated Tox environments.
